1. Madras High Court : Use only drones to determine the exact mining of minerals
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/hc-to-tn-use-only-drones-to-check-minerals-quarried/articleshow/68383089.cms

Madras High Court has directed the TamilNadu state government to use only drones technology to 'monitor, control, explore, estimate and quantify mining and quarrying contacts. While court has said that both MTS (Mining Tenement System) and Drones technology can be used simultaneously, at no times the Drones use can be dispensed with.

A division bench of Justices M Venugopal and S Vaidyanathan passed the order on a PIL by advocate VBR Menon.

2. Future 50 Foods by Knorr : What we should be eating for a better tomorrow
https://news.abs-cbn.com/advertorial/life/03/12/19/the-future-of-food-50-foods-that-could-help-save-the-world

Knorr has identified 50 plant based food which we should be eating, not only for our health but also for a better planet of future. 
The company partnered with WWF-UK and the Center of Public Health Nutrition at University of Washington.
Some of the 'Future 50' are moringa, okra, white icicle radish, purple yam , Chinese cabbage , soybean, mung bean, and bean sprouts.
"Unless we change the foods we eat and the way we grow them, it will be challenging to have enough food to feed us all well. Our ambition is to make it easy for people to eat a wider variety of foods that are good for us and good for the planet, and, of course, delicious at the same time"

3. Gameful approach is the key to achieve growth mindset
https://theascent.pub/a-gameful-approach-to-a-growth-mindset-55539253acf

Psychological traits of successful gamers can teach us how to achieve growth mindset. The gamers have all the qualities which is imperative of a growth mindset; will power, hard work and perseverance. Employing this 'gameful approach' with children would help them overcome challenges both at school and in life.

"Bringing the psychological strengths you naturally display when you play games — such as optimism, creativity, courage, and determination — to your real life. It means having the curiosity and openness to play with different strategies to discover what works best. It means building up resilience to tackle tougher and tougher challenges with greater and greater success."

4. Central Government is the only 'right' authority to ban PUBG
https://www.indiatoday.in/technology/features/story/why-are-indian-cities-banning-pubg-when-it-is-useless-to-do-so-central-govt-should-ban-it-if-needed-1476031-2019-03-12

A few cities have started banning the mobile game PUBG because the administrators believe that it is detrimental to children. However, they have yet to figure out a way to effect the ban in the first place. Civic administrations neither have the authority nor resources to effect such ban, so issuing mere notifications is just a notional attempt at solving the issue.

The only way mobile games can be banned is by impressing upon the need of it and then effecting a Central Government directive to all telecom service providers to ban the traffic from the game's servers to and fro from India. 

5. PUBG addiction makes thief of a 15 year old boy
https://www.thequint.com/tech-and-auto/tech-news/pubg-addiction-jalandhar-boy-steal-rs-50000-to-buy-pubg-game-skins

PUBG has become both the rage and talk of India, majorly among youngsters but the game is so addictive that even adults are finding it difficult to resist. In such times, youngsters are getting gullible due to game's addiction and even committing felonies.

A 15 year old boy from Jalandhar city of Punjab, stole Rs.50,000 from his father's bank account to buy a gaming pod and PUBG skins. Things came to light when Cyber Cell of Police started investigating the matter on the complaint filed by the father. Father works as a bike mechanic.

6. The factors which made PUBG a household sensation in India
https://www.indiatoday.in/technology/features/story/pubg-mobile-is-1-year-old-how-pubg-became-a-household-name-a-huge-addiction-and-a-big-controversy-1453972-2019-02-12

PUBG became a household sensation with carefully and thoughtful inbuilt strategies. It was meant to be, all by design. The important ones are:

 - PUBG could be played even on budget smartphones since the day of it's launch, making it's adoption very easy for it's players and hence ensured its wildfire growth.

 - The game came without any tutorial, which required gamers to learn the game and excel in it, the only way, the hard way. This means playing for longer and longer duration, leading to it's addiction.

 - The regular updates to the games, kept players more and more engaged and active. There was never a lean period for them.

7. "Professional PUBG player and Live streamer" is the new career option for youth of India
https://www.digit.in/gaming/heres-how-indian-pubg-gamers-are-streaming-there-way-to-the-bank-46277.html

India's online gaming market, buoyed by mobile gaming is expected to be a billion dollar industry by 2020. 
In just 6 months, PUBG has managed to double it's DAU (Daily Active Users) to 10 million from 5 million in India.
Some real earning potential has hugely been responsible for making it a sensation among youngsters.
Gamers accept donations through payment applications like Paytm and Google Pay. Some also accept money in the form of YouTube Gaming subscriptions which costs Rs 159/month per subscriber.
“I am from a middle-class family and I do not have my dad. My dad passed away when I was four. Any income from this field was very helpful for my family. At an average, I earned around Rs 1 lakh for the first few months. It has actually helped me a lot,”

8. 72% of Indian players are making purchase on PUBG
https://qz.com/india/1489469/tencents-pubg-is-driving-indian-gamers-crazy/

Players are mostly buying clothes and weapons on PUBG, when live streaming is the name of the game, among gamers. The share of clothing and weapons in purchases made is almost equal. PUBG is the top grossing gaming app on Google Play Store and Apple iPhones game chart as well.

The inbuilt communication option in the app, through which 40% of players in India talk to each other has not only helped built a unique community but also spread the craze of the cult. The gamers do not talk only about games, but everything under the sun and mostly use voice chat.

9. OLA speeding towards custom made electric vehicles
https://www.livemint.com/auto-news/ola-in-talks-to-buy-custom-made-e-vehicles-1552502380806.html

OLA is intending to buy custom made e-vehicles suitable for it's operations (Special Purpose Vehicles), which would be primarily designed in-house. The vehicles are intended to have far better and efficient battery management system, which is critical for EV taxi operations.

Earlier it bought Mahindra & Mahindra's e-Verito off the shelf, and tested it in Nagpur but the project failed. And hence now it is ensuring that vehicles are custom made, according to it's needs and specifications, which could go long haul in taxi operations.

“The electric vehicles that Ola is planning to acquire will be low-cost and the number of features available will also be limited. The vehicles will be developed keeping in mind the needs of shared mobility. Though this is not at an advanced level, the company is in talks with different manufacturers," the person said, adding that “the recent round of fundraising also points towards the elaborate plans the startup has in the electric mobility space".

10. 2500 years ago, King Ajatshatru was the true vanguard of AI revolution in India
https://www.sfchronicle.com/news/article/Robots-guarded-Buddha-s-relics-in-a-legend-of-13684530.php

The legend says that, When Lord Buddha dies, King Ajatshatru was entrusted to safeguard his relics. He hid them in an underground chamber near Patliputra (today's Patna which is capital of state of Bihar). Since the relics were priceless, he deployed guards which were extraordinary to safeguard them.

These guards were robots, not humans. Since they could move on their own, they were called 'Bhoot Vahan Yantra', which meant machines which are being moved essentially by a spirit. The legend further says that, the rbots were meant to be on their 'duty', until a future king would distribute the relics, throughout the empire.










