1. Child Rights Commission seeks answers on 'action' on PUBG from It ministry
https://www.thenewsminute.com/article/pubg-ban-telangana-too-child-rights-commission-seeks-action-report-it-ministry-98479

National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has sought a report on the action taken against the game from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.
The NCPCR took up the issue after a Hyderabad-based Class 9 student had to be given medication by a psychiatrist for PUBG addiction.

While kids are addicted to the game, Parents are still clueless to the extent of damage the game is doing on their ward's psychology.

“Extended exposure to the game dehumanises and desensitises a person to criminality over time, the gruesome way of killing is being made to appear as normal"

2. From cleaning sewers to sorting currency notes and doing heart surgery, robots are gaining ground in India
https://www.livemint.com/technology/tech-news/robots-are-gaining-ground-in-india-steadily-1552837348297.html

Kerala Government is using a robot named 'Bandicoot' for cleaning the sewers, a task which not only required three people and many hours of labour but is also an extremely hazardous task.

ICICI Bank uses robot to sort out currency notes brought from various locations. The old and soiled notes are removed and then the notes are further redistributed to ATMs and other branches. Robots pick up the notes, put them up for counting and then strap the notes in to bundles and place them in appropriate slots.

Ahmedabad based Apex Hospital has even performed a tele-robotic surgery on a patient who was located 32 Kms away in December 2018.

3. Do not order lunch from delivery apps, Chennai school to parents
https://www.thenewsminute.com/article/chennai-school-asks-parents-not-send-lunch-ordered-delivery-apps-students-98404

A Chennai based school has issued circular to parents of it's students to detest from ordering lunch for their kids through delivery apps. The school has a lot of concern over students safety as well as the nutritional quality of food which they eat.

"We have uniforms and other rules to ensure that every student if equal and there is parity. If we allow food delivery apps, there will be some students whose parents will not allow them to eat this food, there will be some who cannot afford every day and there will be students who will have easier access to app-based foods. This may create discrepancies which we want to avoid."

4. No stopping the PUBG obsession in India, team wins Rs.30 Lac as top prize in 'on the ground' tournament
https://www.indiatimes.com/technology/news/despite-the-game-ban-these-kids-won-rs-30-lakh-at-india-s-biggest-pubg-mobile-tournament-363533.html

PUBG is a perfect example of how a mobile game needs to be as much 'offline' as it is 'online' to become an overnight sensation. It has re-written the paradigms of the game.

In the recently concluded PUBG Mobile tournament at Hyderabad, there were over 570,000 online registrations from across the country. The tournament dished out a whopping 40,000 games across to the qualifiers. The top team took home the grand prize of Rs 30,00,000.

While the fans packed the championship venue, the live streaming at a point of time had 2.6 Lac concurrent viewers.

It is not unwise to conclude that without these 'on the ground' championships, PUBG would not have been the sensation, that we talk about today.

Well played team PUBG !

5. Body is not meant for Drinking milk post childhood 
http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20190218-when-did-humans-start-drinking-cows-milk

While human species have been in existent since 300,000 years, the consumption of animal milk started just about 10,000 years ago. And also the early movers were primarily the farmers who lived with the domesticated animals.

Animal milk contains lactose, and so does the human milk. While we consume the milk as child, our bodies are producing lactase, the enzyme required to synthesise lactose, but this stops after early childhood. Hence, human body is not meant to consume post early childhood, when it is needed for survival.

However, over a period of time, DNA mutation lead to 'lactose persistence' and now drinking milk is considered normal or even recommended as healthy.




