AI powered digital assistant speakers are the new 'toys'.

If you don't have one yet, you don't belong to the 'hip'. They are the new 'swipe cards' to the upwardly and savvy club.

The latest report claims that the global smart speaker shipments have grown by 137 per cent year-on-year with over 19.7 million digital speaker units shipped during this period.

The prediction is that the smart speaker shipments in 2018 would cross 75 million units globally.

The Q3 2018 results show that Amazon shipped over 6.3 million Echo speakers, while Google shipped 5.9 million speakers from its Home series during the same period. In percentage, Amazon and Google recorded a market share of 31.9 per cent and 29.8 percent.

Facebook is already putting in cameras also in it's digital assistant home device, albeit so that one can make video calls.

People are now so enamoured with these tiny speakers that it has opened up a completely new dimension to hijack whatever attention was left for the people from smartphone. While the smartphone apocalypse is not over yet, we are staring to the new one of smart-speakers.

Technology majors are bouncing on the opportunity and filing a slew of patents, which would shame a thousand cameras prison. They are soon going to record and analyse, every single tiny bit of piece of information available, right from the closet of the bedroom to the dining hall.

Google has patented imagines devices that would scan and analyse the surroundings of your home, then offer you content based on what they detect.

The patent imagines that smart-home devices would make all types of inferences about users, sorting them into categories based on what the devices see in their most personal spaces.

Smartphone damaged the kids most and smart-speakers are going to do the same.

The second patent proposes a smart-home system that would help run the household, using sensors and cameras to restrict kids’ behaviour. Parents could program a device to note if it overhears “foul language” from children. It can then scan internet usage for mature or objectionable content, or use “occupancy sensors” to determine if certain areas of the house are accessed while they’re gone— for example, the liquor cabinet. 

Alas, if you would like to take a personal break, one would have to take a hike to a remote mountain and live a few days like a caveman. The circle of life, aha!
