There are more 'Visionary','Thought Leaders', 'Futurist' on LinkedIn than there are on this planet. For most, the easiest route to 'FTV' is having a CEO title of a startup. In an ideal world, Startups comes first and then the CEO but in the 'FTV' world, the CEO arrives first and then Startup happens.

While Maslow's Hierarchy Needs says that, 'Self-Actualisation' comes on top of everything and is the last of the needs to be fulfilled. In a world, where 'Top' is a destination and not a journey, and race is always with the others and not self; contradicting Maslow's theory has never been so easy. all it requires is a LinkedIn profile update.

In fact, the second most unimportant need of 'Esteem' also comes under this 'one click, FTV update' of a CEO title.

This is the reason that we have hardly seen a solo founder designating himself as 'COO & Founder'. 

At Fortune’s Most Powerful Women Next Gen summit in Laguna Niguel, Calif. on Wednesday , the argument which followed was that the world should train the limelight a little less on the chief executive officer and a little more on the chief operating officer.

“It’s actually to the detriment of the company that the visionary has the power because often that person is not equipped with the information” to actually run the company and make decisions, argued Alda Leu Dennis, general partner (and former COO) at Initialized Capital."

“I see my job as being the doctor,” she said. “When you’re scaling, every week or month could be incredibly different. I operate triage.” In the beginning, Houseparty co-founder and COO Sima Sistani needed to recruit talent and pay them, so she functioned as HR lead until those tasks were set and delegated. “I just suture and put it out there and figure out how to operationalise it and make it efficient. If I’m doing my job well, I’m putting myself out of a job every month. That’s how I see it.”

The guys who actually do the job or the guys who envision it? Take your pick, but this world is better off due to guys who have hit the dirt and rolled up their sleeves. And above all else, they are not in the 'FTV' club of LinkedIn.
