1. Introducing Kingfisher Instant Beer !
https://youtu.be/LuEmALQozxI

On demand beer delivery is still not a reality, but that does not mean, that you should be devoid with pleasure of having beer 'whenever and wherever'.
For such good times, when you just can't wait, Kingfisher has just launched the 'Kingfisher Instant Beer'. Just mix the two instant powders in chilled water, stir and you are ready to enter into party mode !

2. Ola launches, Ola Restrooms !
https://youtu.be/RkWDe9Bxi-Y

Future of loo is 'mobile' too, believes the leader of mobility in India. Ola has just launched, 'Ola Restroom' where just with the tap of a button on your mobile, you can 'poop', well almost. 
With sufficient advance notice and prayer on lips that arrival is delayed or not delayed (depending on for whom you are praying, yourself or the driver), you can 'poop' in 5 Star comfort, and on demand. 

3. The world's fastest charging electric car with 'Warp Charge', by OnePlus
https://forums.oneplus.com/threads/powered-by-warp-charge-introducing.1014315/

OnePlus is now launching the world's fastest charging electric car with the same technology which powers it's mobile phones.
The car would be paired with OnePlus 6T for 'seamless control'. The premium vehicles would be also beautiful to touch and see, along with the driving pleasure it would offer. 

4. Chetan Maini comes driving with swappable batteries this time
https://www.wired.com/story/india-sun-mobility-electric-rickshaw-bus-battery-swap/

The pioneer of electric vehicles in India, Chetan Maini, who saw and did 'it' in 1999, long before anyone even imagined is now driving in with swappable batteries. The future of Chetan Maini's new company, Sun Mobility is that one should be jsut able to drive away by picking 'fresh batteries' instead of waiting for the complete charge to happen.

The 'big idea' is to separate the batteries from the vehicle. It's interoperable solution which would address 'range anxiety' and high 'refuel' time has already partnerships with mobility startups and vehicle manufacturer such as Ashok Leyland.

5. Vote for AAI, as your new Prime Minister !
https://razorpay.com/non-aadmi-party/

Meet Aai, the leader of 'Non Aadmi' Party, a party which is promising to change the political future of India with Artificial Intelligence. While she is powered by cloud based AI engine, the 'human' in her would be much more humane than found in many of  those 'human politicians'. She is motherly, homely and above all really intelligent candidate.

Unbelievable?

Have a 'Chat with Aai' !

6. In the times of sexbots, let us discuss the future of intimacy...
https://undark.org/article/the-brave-new-world-of-sex-robots/

As interactions with bots increase day by day (primarily in the form of voice assistants) and sex robots are no longer a erotic fantasy, what is the future of intimacy? When computers and psychology collide, what would happen of love and biology?

The verdict is that sex robots or sexbots might just be able to cure the loneliness which technology itself created in the first place.

“Isolation and loneliness are all too often seen as the fault of technology but that same technology can bring us closer together,giving people a chance at pleasure and happiness where previously they had none.”

“The future of intimacy,is not a bleak and isolated vision but a network of connected people who want, as humans have always wanted, to be together.”

7. 'Download Hits' podcasts are being screen adapted to make money 
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2019/mar/30/podcastings-netflix-moment-the-global-battle-for-domination

The number of listeners who would listen at least one podcast a month would rise to 1.83 billion by 2012, it is expected. This would be a six fold growth in seven years.

However,the question still remains about how to make profit out of podcasts, even though the total revenues estimated from podcasts is going to $1 Billion in 2019.

Turning 'download hits' into screen adaptations is one way through which enhanced monetisation could happen.

“I don’t believe that a podcast needs a TV remake to be successful, but I do believe it can benefit from it.The TV launch of Dirty John effectively gave the podcast a new release, a new wave of millions of listeners.”

8. Number of 'Engaged Listeners' is the real metric of a successful podcast
https://vimeo.com/327466124

Usually the success of podcasts is measured in terms of number of downloads or number of listeners, but that might not mean the true success eventually.

At this juncture, where podcast is following in the footsteps of video and everyday marks entry of a number of new entrants, the survival of the fittest game would come into play soon.

And those who would survive, are the ones who have the most number of 'Engaged Listeners'; the listeners who interact with, follow up and eventually 'trust' the podcast.

This group of listeners who have posed 'trust' in the podcast would not only have the most likelihood of being 'paid' subscribers for a long term, but they would also help in building a community around the podcast.




