India is the country which I have chosen.

India is  currently an inclusive state, being independent sovereign country since 15th August 1947, when it attained independence form British rule.

The road to being an inclusive state has been a long and arduous one for India. The first organised protest for freedom, was organised in 1857, almost 90 years before the actual independence. That first organised protest or struggle was brutally suppressed by British through use of excessive power.

The first protest were basically mutineers and semi-organised and thus were easily beaten. In the early parts of 20th century, the protesters wanting freedom and an inclusive state started getting them organised under the banner of a political party called Indian National Congress and Muslim Leagues, which represented two distinct diaspora of people divided by religion.
Though divided by religion barriers since the common goal was independence from British rule, so people all over India fought jointly. Unlike the previous revolution of 1857 which was highly fragmented, the revolution of 20th century was better organised and wide-spread. People have come to know that unless they fight together, they could not throw the British rule and gain independence.
British in 1940s battered with World War soon realised that sustaining their rule in India, with broken and war torn Britain was not possible and they agreed for Independence of India, but divided it into two countries, India and Pakistan.
This freedom was achieved at great cost of human lives and suffering with million being imprisoned and many thousands being sent to gallows.
The partition of the country also lead to incomprehensible carnage and millions lost their home and hundreds of thousands their lives, but this was overcome and India became a secular sovereign republic state in 1950.

India is called a sub-continent because not only of geographic reasons but also because of wide sociological spread. It consists of people belonging to 6 to 7 different religions, the dialects in major languages change every few miles, it is composed of more than half a million villages and has currently population of more than 1.2 billion.
There is a national identity of being an Indian, but it is not held as strongly as the regional identities. Each regional identity is denoted by the regions or states in which the people live and they have very high connect and relation to it. Though people are proud of being an Indian, but they feel ore proud of their local ethnicity and this has been cause of many riots and hatred and bigotry among people of this same country.
Power thankfully is aligned to national identity and people choose the people representative based not in their ethnicity alone but also what they can do for the country, and on the same lines, the elected representatives while keeping the benefits and well-being of their ethnic people first, also take into a large account the overall well being of the larger country. This is the reason that now for over 70 years, India has been a democracy and the elected government have generally served such a diverse ethnic and religious groups of people pretty well.
Hence we can concur that Power and Identity are aligned here in India.

The capital of the country New Delhi is very well connected to the rest of the country with all the major means of transportation including rails, road and air. Anyone from the remotest corner of India can reach New Delhi easily and for this reason, New Delhi has one of the largest migrant population in the country, because people from all over the country come over here to find employment. More and more new trains are launched every year and old ones augmented and also, new highways are launched and completed to connect New Delhi to rest of the country.
New Delhi is also the busiest airport of the country both for the domestic as well as International flights and has three terminals for domestic travellers.
India's dominant transport technology is rail or trains, because it is the fastest and also the most economical means of transport. It is to a large extent subsidised by government and is hence affordable to almost everyone in the country. Also considering the length and breadth of the country, trains are comparatively the most convenient and comfortable means of transport.
In India the dominant building technology is of single floor apartments, but if we divide the country into urban and rural areas then urban areas have high rise with 4 and more floors while the rural areas still consider of single floor apartments. Since the majority of population of India still lives in rural areas, it can be concurred that dominant mode of building construction technology is single floor apartments in the country.


