It has been always the most curious question for me, that why some countries in Europe and Americas are so prosperous while those of which in Asia and Africa are majority poor. Since I never took any such class on Economics, this riddle remain unsolved, until I enrolled in to OXBSG01x of OxfordX on EdX. The title did not sound very convincing until I read the course syllabus and content details and from thereon I decided that this would be the second course which I would finish this year, so far.

The first had been Data 8.1x from University of California, Berkeley on EdX itself.

I am proud to say that the riddle which I explained in the beginning now remains resolved and it has been a very joyful discovery of this year. Now whenever I would hear about any poor (Lower & Middle Income Country, as per World Banks standard), I would try to dig deep in to what is the issue which has remain unresolved, sue to which the country has still not made through, what Sir Collier described as "Eye of a needle", moving from poverty to prosperity.

As part of a continuing education, I am going to go through major news of all the "Lower & Middle Income" countries mentioned by World Bank, weekly and try keep abreast with their developments either towards poverty or prosperity, co relating them with my notes.

I have also enrolled into more "Political Economy" courses, which are completely free on (ie one is allowed to take the exams also in the audit course) on Coursera and intend to pursue this stream in a more detailed way, in years to come.

As it is said, "Political Economy" is the real Economics and I am going to have a permanent relationship with it.

Here is what I wrote as a farewell message to Sir Paul Collier on the final module message board.

"Respected Sir Collier,

Words are not enough to express my gratitude towards you and OxfordX for bringing this course to me. This has been the best course, among all the disciplines from all the other universities and institutes. I completed my first two Coursera courses and earned "Statement of Accomplishment" from Wharton and Darsden, way back in 2013.

OXBSG01x is the best course I have studied so far online.

It felt all the time, as if I was sitting right in front of you and you were explaining, personally to me.

I have taken comprehensive notes from the lectures, hand-written, totalling more than 65 odd pages.

I would request your good self, to take some time out from your busy schedule and teach us some more courses online.

I would take each and every course of yours and study diligently.

I have now enrolled into other Political Economy courses on Coursera and aim to finish them, because your course has generated a massive amount of curiosity in my mind for the subject in general.

This hunger is now insatiable.

Thanks so very much again Sir,

With utmost sincere regards

abhishek"
