Finished Module 4 of OXBSG01x from OxfordX on EdX, today 5th of June 2018.
This is the synopsis of what the module talks about:
1. Following were the learning objectives of the module:
  i) Understand the need for increased productivity for economic growth.
  ii) What is urbanisation and industrialisation?
  iii) Key factors necessary for successful urbanisation
  iv) economic,political and sociological challenges faced by small economies.
2. One of the reasons people are more productive in a big organisation, because they are able to specialise better.

3. When forces of scale works spatially, it is about URBANISATION. When it is about sectorally, then it is about INDUSTRIALISATION.

4. URBANISATION is all about managing the tension between privateindividual interest and public interests.

5. Average level of productivity in the workforce defines the average level of income, thus limiting the scope to get out of poverty.

6. MANAGING COMPLEXITY means being able to manage huge amounts of information, effectively synthesise it and convert it into knowledge which can be harnessed.

7.The process of managing greater information and knowledge happens at three different levels of aggregration: Individual, Teams and Firms.

8.SPATIAL PROXIMITY (Density) is one way for a city to increase it's connectivity. ANother way is by linking people through efficient transport.

9. The private response of middle class when the roads get congested, to get into a car, is akin to digging up the roads. Due to them thereis no incentive to get on a bus than a car, because buses are stuck as well.

10. A NEGATIVE ROAD is the road which is clogged by private cars.

11. LAND MARKETS allws us to have a decentralised process of the growth of the city.

12. Having an area of housing (shacks) very near to the center of city is likely to be an inefficient use of land. 

13. The people who get the benefits directly of a growing city and hence increased land prices are the people who own theland. Is the city growing becauseof their hard work? No. No, the city is growing, and land is becoming more valuable, becauseof everybody's work.

14. Tax the appreciation in land prices, since theappreciation of land values is the consequence of coordinated production activity in this city.

15. HENRY GEORGE THEOROM OF ECONOMICS:The appreciation in land values exceeds the cost of any infrastructure needed to make the city efficient.

16. If we tax the sufficient of land appreciation, we can finance all the infrastructure we need.

17. Exploitation of scale economies depend on one profound change.

18. Exploiting scale and specialisation is not driven by invention but by rather sequence.

19.The conundrum of solving both scale and interdependence at the same time is thekiller for small economies.

20. Modern firms produce at scale themselves, but a lot of this scale comes from being clustered together.



