There are trends in startup world, every 5 odd years or so. 

And then everyone gets busy following the trend. Everything seems possible, Unicorns and Deca-corns. 

The 'Herd Flu' starts with VCs and soon spreads to founders and wannabe founders.

Common sense is the most common casualty in such scenario, and no one even tries to answer or question basic things. Like how this would make money? What is the right business model?

Technology becomes the messiah, the mean becomes the end, and then it is the beginning of the end of the startup.

There is a very obvious reason for the 99% of the startups to fail, because they fail to ask and answer, some very mundane question. 

Startups have never been rocket science.

The truth of the matter is if a Startup has to be a disruptor, technology is the means to do it. Unless it is backed by a solid monetising business model, the startup would soon be dust. 

For VCs, the game becomes of 'last man standing' and many startup founders also fell in this trap and do not improvise.

Using the coolest technology around does not mean that company is innovative and is going to be a disruptive. Like everything else worth having, innovation is also holistic and should be viewed in a 360 degree way. People, Product, Processes and Business Models alike.

The Holy Grail is profitability, which is possible only with the right business model.

"It is true that business models disrupt, not businesses. Companies that die, their business models die. There could be a lot of reasons why companies die. But the ones that are truly well-managed and making the right kind of decisions, they are pursuing their success and that success takes them to a place that is no longer the primary lever of value creation, they were myopic or they didn’t realise the business model. That’s the classic disruption model."

It's commercialisation of the technology after it's successful application which only matters.

For all the Startup founders who are trying to ride and or are waiting in the wings to hop on the AI bandwagon, because it is cool, please first ask what is your business model?

Please start describing your company by "We are going to make money by applying AI to _____ and then commercialising it" and not "We are an AI Startup for _____"
